###Non-Technical Image classifier (Animals)

In this project, I wanted to create a machine learning model that looked at pictures of animals and at the bare minimum 
correctly identified the name of the animal half of the time. I used a selection of photos from 10 different animals/bugs. 
The person who collected these photos grabbed them from google searching. In total, I used close to 30,000 photos to create 
my model.

Major issues arise from “scaping” images from google search. Some of these images were of the correct animal but they could 
also include images of other animals or humans. For example, if you were to google search images of dogs. You would find photos
of dogs with other dogs and humans too. These issues certainly reduce the accuracy of my model when it is supposed to classify a
dog. Another aspect is that the majority of those images are different sizes and resolutions. There were features put in place 
to handle these types of problems.

After sorting and properly labeling all the photos. I created the model that breaks down these images and finds similarities 
between images that are alike. The term Neural Network implies the use of a “brain”, and similarly connections are made with 
these things called weights and biases that allow my model to learn as it reviews each image.

When the model is reviewing those images, the code must be left alone. You cannot continue to work on the project because the 
computer needs to finish reviewing the images first. In this case where I am working with close to 30,000 images, this process can 
easily take more than 2 hours. 

Something I should have not done, was when I took a guess and check approach to see if the model is getting better. I would make small 
changes to my model and run it to see how it would perform. This was by far the most time-consuming part of this project.

As of now I have two versions of my project. My initial version reached a reliability of 0.48. This was very close to my goal of 0.50. 
My second version reached a reliability of 0.62. This increase of reliability was achieved by introducing variations of the same images
at different angles. These extra images really help my model to decern between different animals.

My next steps include introducing new ways to add images to my collection. It is also possible to allow the model to train for an 
extended amount of time to see if it surpasses its current reliability.
